PETSc-HOWTO
Gerd Lanfermann
v1.2, 13 July 2000

This HOWTO describes how to use PETSc with Cactus. Please help 
us to keep this documentation complete and up-to-date by sending 
complaints, suggestions and errata to the Cactus Team at 
cactusmaint@cactuscode.org 

1.  PETSc
1.1 Overview
1.2 PETSc and Cactus
1.3 PETSC Download and Documentation
2.  Installation & Setup of PETSc
2.1 Compiling with PETSc
3.  Access of PETSc from within Cactus

1.) PETSc

1.1) Overview

     	PETSc is a suite of data structures and routines for the scalable
     	(parallel) solution of scientific applications modeled by partial
     	differential equations.  It employs the MPI standard for all
	message-passing communication. 

	The Scalable Linear Equations Solvers (SLES) component of PETSc
	provides an easy-to-use interface to the combination of a Krylov
	subspace iterative method and a preconditioner (in the KSP and PC
	components, respectively) or a sequential direct solver. SLES 
	users can set various Krylov and preconditioning options.

	The Scalable Nonlinear Equations Solvers (SNES) component
	provides an easy-to-use interface to Newton-based methods 
	for solving systems of nonlinear equations. SNES users can set
	various algorithmic options. SNES internally employs SLES for
	the solution of its linear systems. 
  
1.2) PETSc and Cactus

	PETSc is currently employed in one thorn of the Computational 
	Toolkit, CactusElliptic/EllPETSc. This thorn provides capabilities
	for solving linear elliptic equations. Compiling and using this 
	thorn requires

	- including CactusElliptic/EllBase
	- compiling with MPI
	- an installation of PETSc on your system

	More information about solving elliptic equations with the 
	Computational Toolkit, and with PETSC in particular, can be found
        in the thorn documentation of EllBase and EllPETSc.

1.3) PETSc Download and documentation

     	PETSc can be downloaded for free at
     	http://www-fp.mcs.anl.gov/petsc/
     	It has been ported to all major architectures 
	and operating systems.
	

2.) Installation & Setup of PETSc

	If there is no PETSc installed on your system, compile and install
	PETSc according to the documentation. Make sure you install the MPI
	version. Test the installation. You need to have the
	environment variables PETSC_DIR and PETSC_ARCH set according
	to the PETSc documentation. 	

	Ensure that the PETSc libraries are in the library search path:
	e.g. you may need to set the environment variable
	LD_LIBRARY_PATH. Otherwise, the Cactus executable    
	compiles and starts, but will complain about missing libraries. 

	If there is a preinstalled version of PETSc on your system,
	refer to the PETSc documentation on how to set the
	PETSC_DIR / PETSC_ARCH appropriately. 

2.1) Compiling with PETSc

	Cactus has been used with PETSc version 2.0.24, all versions up 
	from this should work.

	Cactus and PETSc have only been tested with the MPI version of 
	PETSc. Therefore, you need to configure Cactus with MPI if you
	make use of a thorn which uses PETSc directly (for example 
	CactusElliptic/EllPETSc). The PETSc thorn itself may have 
	additional requirements.
	
        If the MPI version of PETSc is installed correctly and you have
	configured Cactus with MPI, it will compile out-of-the box if
	you compile with a (working) thorn which uses PETSc.

3.) Access of PETSc from within Cactus
	
	Routines which make use of PETSc are written as any other routine
	in Cactus. Please refer to the example thorn EllPETSc in the
	CactusElliptic arrangement and its documentation.

